fellow citizens of Earth have you ever
felt more part of a global community
have you ever felt more repelled away
from people by social distancing look at
the new vocabulary we learning social
distancing flatten the curve
epidemiologist viola viola gist is that
right I never knew these words like two
three days ago my own personal
trajectory from glib and dismissive to
I'm about to use this as an excuse to
get out of things I don't want to do
this is a serious serious catastrophe
I've always been a slow learner
has there been anything in living memory
simultaneously so big and so small of
course there's been disasters
earthquakes tidal waves that have caused
more fatalities and in some ways more
damage but also there's been cataclysmic
events like 9/11 but has there been
anything simultaneously so big and so
small so globally big that whether
you're in Kenya or Australia or England
or Spain or California you're gonna be
affected by this but so small that you
have the experience of being in a
supermarket or looking at your own bank
balance I'm aware that I'm in a
privileged position comparatively and
that hierarchy of privilege is a broad
and long spectrum please God countries
without adequate healthcare are exposed
to these risks what I'm primarily
interested in given that I'm not a
medical expert a mathematician or viral
adjust an immunologist or any of the
other things is the social psychological
and spiritual impact of a truly global
phenomena some of the things that I
wanted to talk about with you include
the herd immunity idea and its
detractors there the fact that we are
going to be governed by people at a time
when there's an incredible lack of trust
in government in a sense the reality
even as we understand it as laypeople is
oh this is a highly contagious thing is
having a massive economic impact no one
knows what to do because it's to a
degree unprecedented and we have got to
work out the distinction between
necessary centralized power around
medicine law and order justice
distribution and local the necessary
localized power that's been so neglected
one of the things I've been thinking
about is aren't we how exposed we are to
abstract systems I mean I know akan
economics is real like if suddenly all
everything that I owned was suddenly
wiped works or the pressing of a button
which you know suddenly seems plausible
I would consider it real but you know we
have airlines that can't contend with
the ethos of their own system like
airlines are asking for bailouts and you
know do we want to live in a world where
there are no airlines well that's
another question suddenly it seems that
we there is a question mark over the
idea of essential travel non-essential
travel the kind of like adjustments that
ecologically minded people have been
considering for a while and now being
imposed self-imposed self-isolation like
most of you I've got people that I'm
directly concerned about like my mother
can't get this I've got other family
members that can't get this you know
it's an extraordinary time it's an
extraordinary time the things that I'm
most interested in is what can we learn
from this from a program perspective is
a man that is a program the way that
these things must be approached I'm
talking about from my own psychological
survival but I reckon it's analogous to
sociological and even global survival is
one acknowledgement of a problem to the
belief that a problem can be solved
three but the problem can't be solved
individually but perhaps can be
collectively for that we need to really
understand it inventory share
information and trust experts in
individual field and I don't just mean
individual fields such as medicine and
immunology I mean other fields so
sociological behavioral think about me
how many of the impositions that are
being discussed of behavioral like in
the UK for example we don't wanna impose
gathering restrictions yet in case
people have fatigue I'm fatigued of not
getting coronavirus now like yeah as as
one as that letter to the government
from that body of sign is said and
what's the date at it
the there will be behavioral fatigue
what's the data that suggests that this
is a good way of flattening out the
curve in Italy at the time of recording
this they've been a 25% increase in
Italy a further down the narrative line
than we are that's with the assumption
that there is one narrative line the
information is coming so quickly the
changes are happening so rapidly what
I'm most curious about is the way that
it challenges our ideas about community
economics social economic systems that
clearly can't hold themselves together
it seems like you know did you watch the
Bill Gates TED talk races like you know
looking at when he looked at your bowler
and SARS and said if there's another
global epidemic this is what it might
look like and we should have we should
have preparatory measures in place the
same way as we would militarily for
conflict with what trained armies etc
are it poses some interesting questions
about bio politics the thing that I
returned to is the idea that we are out
of touch with nature our own nature and
nature more broadly but for hundreds of
thousands of years we lived as
hunter-gatherers in groups of 75 to 150
people and our closest relatives in the
primate world split around 200 I wonder
if we lived in a Confederacy of tribal
groups they would obviously needs to be
centralization as I mentioned at the
beginning around you know judiciary
medical issues etc but the Confederacy
applies that imagine if we lived in
tribal groups where we shared where we
looked after one another it seems like
this is like the echoes of our origins
are being heard on the wind are being
carried microbiologically you can't live
in abstract economic systems you can't
just do what you want you can't
limitlessly consume the way that it
feels when our cathedrals of consumerism
are laid bare the empty breadless rice
lush shelves and you realize oh this is
invisibly held together by systems that
we don't think about like Ziya Tong said
everything is filmed today except where
our food comes from where our energy
comes from and where our waste goes
everything else you can look out on
Instagram everything else can be seen
well now the unconscious world is
surging up we're being invited to go
with indeed
that verse from the from the Dow that I
posted it's like in ancient wisdom these
things are understood whilst this is
unprecedented for civilizations of this
civilization this is somehow deeply
understood in the areas of expertise
which must be grant aid preeminent along
with the areas of expertise in medicine
and science which must be heralded must
be heard must be listened to we must
listen also to the ancient wisdom we
must listen to the truth within what are
we being shown what are we being taught
about what is important to us about who
we can trust about what values we have
who governs us is this how we want to be
governed what is the value of her
nation-state what is the value of
commercial capitalism if when nature
surges back it falls apart as osho said
oh no no Osho was a man who had some
complexity otto said what is
civilization civilization is just a
clearing in the forest have you ever
felt that more strongly have you ever
felt more but the forest could close in
I use the forest as a metaphor for
nature herself the micro in the
microbiotic set semi as some particular
world forces could emerge and reclaim
that which we believe but knew in our
heart of hearts wasn't permanent some
interesting things that I've observed
the herd immunity policy seems to be
somewhat driven by a kind of social
Darwinist stick survival of the fittest
methodology reliant on self isolation
which is like a peculiar thing I love
what we've got to rely on our men's and
granddad's and people with respiratory
conditions to so self isolate while 40
50 60 million people contract this thing
develop a herd immunity for which there
is no president as far as I understand
because it is a novel virus and hope
that those vulnerable people don't catch
it it's interesting to confront that
level of powerlessness the airlines and
manufacturing industries asking for
bailouts oh I see so there is such a
thing as society there is such a thing
as welfare and Social Care we can't just
survive on the principles of the market
will decide because look at what happens
to the market when nature or whatever
this is I know some people where
the provenance of this condition but
that's in a sense always going to be
speculative in any event it's here now
and the havoc that it's wreaking it's
difficult to see how one centralized
body be here at pharmacy pharmaceutical
or otherwise would benefit in a way
that's tangible we've invented the
vaccine let's release the virus oh my
fucking god difficult to imagine how
that idea would work more important I
think is the acknowledgement oh wow
we're all connected to one another we
need to look after one another where
we're at whether it's Airlines or
individual people that can take care of
themselves they are they are today an
airline asking for a bailout is exactly
identical as an individual person saying
I can't look after myself my mental
health or my physical health isn't good
enough for me to work on we all
connected how are we allowing this it
could see the UH the argument against
welfare has always been know if you want
to survive you've got to survive in
these systems using your Moxie your can
eNOS your ability to survive well look
what happens when when a society
receives a moment of crisis in the same
way that many individuals already have
done you have to ask for help you're
after it suspend the rules of the game
of capitalism and ask for help
lessons to be learned there who is not
inspired by Jurgen Klopp s--
philosophical attitude to Liverpool's
first title in 30 years that football is
the most important of the least
important things it's not worth one
single person getting sick wouldn't you
rather have Jurgen Klopp running the
country whatever country you're in than
the person that currently runs your
country what a guy Jurgen Klopp who
would've thought you know and like
football is important about it and it's
a interesting rupture in the system
isn't y'all know football is just
imaginary it's just a game with rules
that you know a snap of the fingers it's
over how many other social systems are
similarly held together in the
conceptual mind I would argue there are
many economic ones where the panic
glands is it toilet rolls or is it guns
look how primal our instincts are look
at what we fixate on when it comes to
crunch time my contribution to this
conversation is simply what is it that
can be controlled what can we learn from
this how can we go within how
can we accept this changing world how
can we deal with the grief and mourning
of this rapidly changing situation none
of us know if in three months or six
months or nine months its things are
going to settle down none of us know
what's going to happen in China when
social distancing laws are removed we
don't know the uncertainty of this and
yet we never knew our urge you check
that verse eight-year the bow where with
ancient prophecy they talk of now where
they say the ever-changing world always
changing always or in if you have no
relationship with the deep voice within
this is going to be difficult and
challenging I'm like you I'm feeling the
same thing some degree of fear but
wisdom fear hopefully rather than
neurotic fear neurotic fear called
toilet rolls wisdom fear wash your hands
stay awake stay aware think about how
you're going to reorder your life think
about how you're going to be
economically impacted think about what
your values are I'm there like you I
don't have any answers the only thing
that I have any certainty around is that
now more than ever we must look inside
ourselves and in relationship behave
honorably and with integrity and grace
towards one another I'm going to
continue to do these videos on the
global individual sociological and
spiritual impact of coronavirus
subscribe here to the YouTube channel
you know I did that podcast on luminary
if you want it I'm gonna try and put out
content whenever I can
I hope you are ok if you have questions
stick them in the comments below if you
have comments stick them in the
questions below and Wow
look after yourself and let's accumulate
knowledge together and distribute power
as best we can power is information